Child, Family and Community Service Act
Child, Family and Community Service Regulation
[Last amended July 15, 2024 by B.C. Reg. 211/2024]

Contents
Part 1 — Introductory Provisions
1	Definitions
2	Best interests of child
Part 2 — Family Support Agreements, Reports and Plans of Care
3	Terms to be included in agreements
4	Reports to court about removal, return and withdrawal from proceeding
5	Information about less disruptive measures
6	Plans of care
7	Contents of interim plan of care
8	Contents of other plans of care
8.01	Contents of plan of care if director seeking order that child be placed in temporary or permanent custody of care provider
Part 2.1 — Agreements with Youths and Adults
Division 1 — Agreements with Youths
8.1	When a youth needs assistance
8.2	Contents of plan for independence
Division 2 — Agreements with Adults
8.3	Agreements under section 12.3 of Act
8.31	Agreements under section 12.3 of Act — programs and activities
8.32	Agreements under section 12.4 of Act
8.4	Age and duration caps
8.5	Time limits extended due to COVID-19 emergency
Part 3 — Mediation
9	Child protection mediators
10	Assistance with costs of attending mediation
Part 4 — Indigenous Organizations and
Designated Representatives
10.1	Repealed
11	Indigenous organizations
12	Designated representatives
Part 4.1 — Agreements with Indigenous Communities
12.1	Additional purposes
Part 4.2 — Indigenous Authorities and Orders Respecting Indigenous Law
Division 1 — Interpretation
12.2	Definition
Division 2 — Indigenous Authorities
12.3	Indigenous authority confirmation
Division 3 — Orders Respecting Indigenous Law
12.4	Definitions
12.5	Notification of withdrawal — before presentation hearing or before conclusion of presentation hearing
12.6	Notice of withdrawal — after presentation hearing
12.7	Notice of custody intent of Indigenous authority
12.8	Repealed
Part 5 — Administrative Reviews
13	Repealed
14	Director to designate persons to conduct reviews
15	Request for review
16	Decision not to proceed with review
17	How reviews are conducted
18	Factors to be considered
19	Outcome of review
Part 5.1 — Reviews Relating to Services
19.1	Criteria for when a director must consider conducting a review
Part 6
20-24	Repealed
Part 7 — Other Provisions
25	Definition for disclosure purposes
25.1	Disclosure of personal information in reports relating to services
26	Repealed
27	Forms
Schedule 1
Schedule 1A
Schedule 1B
Schedule 2
Schedule 3
Part 1 — Introductory Provisions

Definitions
1  In this regulation:

"Act" means the Child, Family and Community Service Act;

"administrative review" means a review conducted in response to a request under section 15 (1);

"interim plan of care" means a plan of care prepared for a presentation hearing;

"review authority" means the person or persons designated under section 14 to conduct an administrative review.

[am. B.C. Regs. 400/99, s. 1; 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 1.]

Best interests of child
2  Where there is a reference in this regulation to the best interests of a child, all relevant factors must be considered in determining the child's best interests, including for example, the factors listed in section 4 of the Act.

Part 2 — Family Support Agreements, Reports and Plans of Care

Terms to be included in agreements
3  An agreement under section 5, 6 or 7 of the Act must include terms permitting

(a)the parent to terminate the agreement on giving the director notice as set out in the agreement, and

(b)the director to terminate the agreement on giving the parent notice as set out in the agreement, which must provide for at least 7 days' notice.

Reports to court about removal, return and withdrawal from proceeding
4   (1)For the purpose of section 33.2 (1) of the Act, a report must be in Form F.

(2)For the purpose of sections 35 (1) or 42.1 (5) of the Act, a report on the circumstances that caused a director to remove a child must be in Form A.

(3)For the purpose of each of the following sections of the Act, a report or withdrawal must be in Form B:

(a)a return under section 33 (1.1);

(b)section 33 (3);

(c)section 33.01 (2);

(d)section 48 (2).

(3.1)For the purpose of section 33.05 (3) or 48.4 (3) of the Act, a report must be in Form G.

(3.2)For the purpose of section 50.04 (3) of the Act, a report must be in Form H.

(4)Despite subsections (1) to (3.2), an address and telephone number of a person other than the director need not be included in a report or withdrawal if it might result in a person being molested, harassed or annoyed.

[en. B.C. Reg. 171/98, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 2; 82/2014, Sch., s. 1; 187/2018, App., s. 1; 275/2023, App., s.1.]

Information about less disruptive measures
5  For the purposes of section 35 (1) (c) of the Act, information about any less disruptive measures considered by a director before removing a child must be in Form A.

[am. B.C. Reg. 171/98, s. 2.]

Plans of care
6  A plan of care must be prepared in writing by the director responsible for the child.

Contents of interim plan of care
7   (1)An interim plan of care relating to the removal of a child under sections 30 and 42 of the Act must be in Form A.

(1.1)An interim plan of care relating to an application under section 29.1 of the Act must be in Form F.

(2)In addition to the information required under sections 33.2 (1) (b), 35 (1) (c) and 42.1 (5) of the Act, an interim plan of care must include the following:

(a)the child's name and date of birth;

(b)the child's current living arrangement;

(c)whether or not the child's views on the plan have been considered;

(d)if known, the name, date of birth, home address and home and work telephone numbers of the child's parents;

(e)whether or not the parents have been involved in the development of the plan;

(f)the name, business address and business telephone number of the director responsible for the child, including an after-hours emergency phone number;

(g)the director's recommendations about the care and supervision of the child and about access to the child;

(h)if the child is an Indigenous child, the steps to be taken to support the child to learn about and practise the child's Indigenous traditions, customs and language and to belong to the child's Indigenous community.

(3)Despite subsection (2) (b) and (d), an address and telephone number of a person other than the director need not be included if it might result in a person being molested, harassed or annoyed.

(4)The email address of the director responsible for the child may be included in an interim plan of care.

[am. B.C. Regs. 171/98, s. 3; 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 3; 17/2019, App., s. 1; 275/2023, App., s. 2.]

Contents of other plans of care
8   (1)In this section, "plan of care" means a plan of care prepared for a court hearing to consider an application for an order,

(a)other than an interim order, that a child be returned to or remain in the custody of the parent apparently entitled to custody and be under a director's supervision for a specified period, or

(b)that a child be placed in the custody of a director under

(i)a temporary custody order, or

(ii)a continuing custody order.

(2)A plan of care must include the following information:

(a)the child's name and date of birth;

(b)the child's current living arrangement and whether an order has been made under the Act about the child;

(c)the overall goal of the plan of care;

(d)whether or not the child's views on the plan of care have been considered;

(e)if known, the name, date of birth, home address and home and work telephone numbers of the child's parents and siblings;

(f)the name, business address and business telephone number of the director responsible for the child, including an after-hours emergency phone number;

(g)in the case of an Indigenous child other than a Treaty First Nation child or a Nisg̱a'a child, the name of the child's First Nation or Indigenous community, in the case of a Treaty First Nation child, the name of the child's Treaty First Nation and in the case of a Nisg̱a'a child, the Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government;

(h)the parents' involvement in the development of the plan of care, including their views, if any, on the plan;

(i)in the case of an Indigenous child other than a Treaty First Nation child or a Nisg̱a'a child, the involvement of the child's First Nation or Indigenous community, in the case of a Treaty First Nation child, the involvement of the child's Treaty First Nation and in the case of a Nisg̱a'a child, the involvement of the Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government, in the development of the plan of care, including its views, if any, on the plan;

(j)if the director is applying for an order described in subsection (1) (a) or a temporary custody order,

(i)a description of the services to be provided to the parent as agreed to by the parent, and

(ii)the goals of the services to be provided to the parent and the method of determining if they have been met;

(k)a description of the services to be provided to the child;

(l)the goals of the services to be provided to the child and the method of determining if they have been met;

(m)a description of how the director proposes to meet the child's need for

(i)continuity of relationships, including ongoing contact with parents, relatives and friends,

(ii)continuity of education and of health care, including care for any special health care needs the child may have, and

(iii)continuity of cultural heritage, religion, language, and social and recreational activities;

(n)in the case of an Indigenous child, the steps to be taken to support the child to learn about and practise the child's Indigenous traditions, customs and language and to belong to the child's Indigenous community and to comply with section 71 (3) of the Act;

(o)a description of any outstanding needs of the child that have not been resolved and the plan for resolving them;

(p)if the director intends to apply for a continuing custody order, a description of the arrangements being made to meet the child's need for permanent stable relationships;

(q)a schedule for the review of the plan of care.

(3)Despite subsection (2) (b) and (e), an address and telephone number of a person other than the director need not be included if it might result in a person being molested, harassed or annoyed.

(4)The email address of the director responsible for the child may be included in a plan of care.

[am. B.C. Regs. 331/2002, App. 2, s. 1; 36/2009, s. 1; 274/2012, Sch., s. 1; 17/2019, App., s. 2; 275/2023, App., s. 3.]

Contents of plan of care if director seeking order that child be placed in temporary or permanent custody of care provider
8.01   (1)In this section:

"care provider" means the person, other than a director or parent, in whose custody the director is applying to the court for

(a)a temporary custody order to place a child, or

(b)an order under section 54.01 (5) of the Act to permanently transfer custody of a child;

"plan of care" means a plan of care prepared for a court hearing to consider an application that a child be placed in the temporary or permanent custody of a care provider.

(2)A plan of care must include the following information:

(a)the information described in section 8 (2) (a), (c) to (e), (g) to (i), and (o);

(b)the child's current living arrangement and whether

(i)an agreement has been made under section 8 (1) of the Act about the child,

(ii)an order has been made under the Act about the child, and

(iii)an application is being made for a temporary custody order or an order permanently transferring custody under section 54.01 (5) of the Act;

(c)the name, business address and business telephone number of the director providing services to the child, including an after-hours emergency phone number;

(d)the care provider's involvement in the development of the plan of care including the care provider's views on the plan;

(e)a description of the services to be provided to the care provider as agreed to by the care provider;

(f)the goals of the services to be provided to the care provider and the method of determining if they have been met;

(g)whether financial assistance is to be provided to the care provider;

(h)a description of how the care provider proposes to meet the child's need for

(i)continuity of relationships, including ongoing contact with parents, relatives and friends,

(ii)continuity of education and health care, including care for any special health care needs the child may have, and

(iii)continuity of cultural heritage, religion, language, and social and recreational activities;

(i)in the case of an Indigenous child, the steps to be taken to support the child to learn about and practise the child's Indigenous traditions, customs and language and to belong to the child's Indigenous community;

(j)confirmation that the director is satisfied with the care provider's ability to care for the child;

(k)if the director is applying for a temporary custody order,

(i)a description of the services to be provided to the parent as agreed to by the parent,

(ii)a description of the services to be provided to the child, and

(iii)the goals of the services to be provided to the parent and the child and the method of determining if they have been met.

(3)Despite subsection (2) (a) and (b), an address and telephone number of a person other than the director need not be included if it might result in a person being molested, harassed or annoyed.

(4)The email address of the director providing services to the child may be included in a plan of care.

[en. B.C. Reg. 274/2012, Sch., s. 2; am. B.C. Regs. 82/2014, Sch., s. 2; 17/2019, App., s. 3; 275/2023, App., s. 4.]

Part 2.1 — Agreements with Youths and Adults

Division 1 — Agreements with Youths

When a youth needs assistance
8.1  A director may enter into an agreement with a youth under section 12.2 of the Act only if the director is satisfied that each of the following apply in respect to the youth:

(a)the youth

(i)is affected by a significant adverse condition, such as severe substance abuse, a significant behavioural or mental disorder, or sexual exploitation as that term is used in section 13 (1.1) of the Act,

(ii)is in the care of a director under an order or agreement that is about to expire, and it would be in the best interests of the youth if an agreement under section 12.2 of the Act were in place following expiry of the order or agreement, or

(iii)is or is likely to be in need of protection as described in section 13 of the Act, and an agreement with the youth under section 12.2 of the Act would be a safe and effective alternative to dealing with the youth under Part 3 of the Act;

(b)reasonable efforts to support the youth in the home of the youth's parent or other adult person have been unsuccessful;

(c)the youth requires services and assistance as described by section 12.2 (2) of the Act beyond that which is available to the youth through other sources, including through other government delivered or government sponsored programs;

(d)the youth understands the responsibilities and implications of entering into the agreement;

(e)the youth demonstrates ability and readiness to

(i)engage in supported independent living,

(ii)address and manage risks that may affect the youth's safety and well-being, and

(iii)implement a plan for independence prepared under section 12.2 (3) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 464/2003; am. B.C. Reg. 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 4.]

Contents of plan for independence
8.2  For the purposes of section 12.2 (3) of the Act, a plan for independence must contain the following:

(a)a description of the behavioural commitments of the youth, the responsibilities and promised acts of the youth and the director under the agreement, and any relevant timelines;

(b)information necessary to support and preserve the youth's cultural, racial, linguistic and religious heritage;

(c)in the case of an Indigenous youth, information necessary to support the youth to learn about and practise the youth's Indigenous traditions, customs and language and to belong to the youth's Indigenous community;

(d)a description of the youth's plan to make the transition to independence, addressing education, employment, residential arrangements and interpersonal relationships;

(e)a plan outlining how the youth's performance under the agreement, including accomplishments and successes, will be monitored throughout the term of the agreement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 400/99, s. 3; am. B.C. Reg. 17/2019, App., s. 4.]

Division 2 — Agreements with Adults

Agreements under section 12.3 of Act
8.3   (1)In this section:

"eligible child" means a person who is 12 years of age or over but is under 19 years of age;

"specified personal guardianship" means

(a)personal guardianship of a director under

(i)section 51 (1) (a) of the Infants Act, or

(ii)section 29 (3) (a) of the Family Relations Act, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 128, as it read immediately before its repeal by the Family Law Act, or

(b)personal guardianship of an adoption director under section 24 (1) or 75 of the Adoption Act.

(2)A director may enter into an agreement under section 12.3 of the Act with a person who is a specified adult and meets one or more of the following criteria:

(a)the person was, immediately before the person's 19th birthday,

(i)the subject of a continuing custody order,

(ii)the subject of a specified personal guardianship,

(iii)a party to an agreement under section 12.2 of the Act, or

(iv)the subject of an arrangement under an Indigenous law that is comparable to an arrangement described in any of subparagraphs (i) to (iii);

(b)the person was, while an eligible child, the subject of a permanent transfer of custody under

(i)section 54.01 (5) or 54.1 (3) of the Act, or

(ii)an Indigenous law;

(c)the person was, while an eligible child, adopted and, immediately before the adoption, was the subject of

(i)a continuing custody order,

(ii)a specified personal guardianship, or

(iii)an arrangement under an Indigenous law that is comparable to an arrangement described in subparagraph (i) or (ii);

(d)the person was, on at least 730 days while an eligible child,

(i)the subject of an agreement under section 6, 7 or 8 of the Act,

(ii)a party to an agreement under section 12.2 of the Act,

(iii)the subject of an interim order under section 35 (2) (a) or (d), 36 (3) or 42.1 (6) of the Act, other than an interim order that the person be returned to or remain with a parent,

(iv)the subject of a temporary custody order,

(v)the subject of a continuing custody order,

(vi)the subject of a specified personal guardianship, or

(vii)the subject of an arrangement under an Indigenous law that is comparable to an arrangement described in any of subparagraphs (i) to (vi).

(3)A reference in this section to an Indigenous law is a reference to an Indigenous law of any of the following:

(a)a First Nation in British Columbia;

(b)the Nisg̱a'a Nation;

(c)a Treaty First Nation.

(4)In determining whether arrangements are comparable for the purposes of this section, a director must

(a)consult the relevant Indigenous authorities, and

(b)consider both the nature and the purpose of the arrangement.

[en. B.C. Reg. 76/2024, Sch., s. 2.]

Agreements under section 12.3 of Act — programs and activities
8.31  For the purposes of section 12.3 (2) (b) (ii) of the Act, educational, health and cultural programs and activities are prescribed, including, without limitation, programs and activities relating to

(a)vocational training,

(b)life-skills development,

(c)rehabilitation or mental health,

(d)the specified adult's culture or heritage, or

(e)in the case of an Indigenous specified adult, the specified adult's Indigenous identity and connection to an Indigenous community and the land.

[en. B.C. Reg. 76/2024, Sch., s. 3.]

Agreements under section 12.4 of Act
8.32  A director may enter into an agreement under section 12.4 of the Act with a person in relation to a specified adult if

(a)the specified adult meets one or more of the criteria set out in section 8.3 (2) (a) to (d) of this regulation, and

(b)the person provided residential services for the specified adult immediately before the specified adult's 19th birthday.

[en. B.C. Reg. 76/2024, Sch., s. 3.]

Age and duration caps
8.4   (1)A director may not make an agreement under section 12.3 of the Act with a specified adult if the agreement would

(a)extend beyond the calendar month of the specified adult's 27th birthday,

(b)provide for financial assistance for purposes described in section 12.3 (2) (a) beyond the calendar month of the specified adult's 20th birthday,

(c)provide for financial assistance for purposes described in section 12.3 (2) (b) (i) beyond the calendar month of the specified adult's 21st birthday, unless the financial assistance is

(i)provided while the specified adult is also receiving assistance for a purpose described in section 12.3 (2) (b) (ii), or

(ii)limited to a rent supplement, or

(d)result in the specified adult receiving under agreements under section 12.3 support services or financial assistance, or both, for purposes described in section 12.3 (2) (b) (ii) for more than 84 months.

(2)A director may not make an agreement under section 12.4 of the Act for the benefit of a specified adult if the agreement would extend beyond the calendar month of the specified adult's 21st birthday.

[en. B.C. Reg. 76/2024, Sch., s. 4.]

Time limits extended due to COVID-19 emergency
8.5   (1)In this section:

"agreement" means an agreement made under section 12.3 of the Act;

"COVID-19 emergency" means the emergency that is the subject of

(a)the notice provided on March 17, 2020 by the provincial health officer under section 52 (2) of the Public Health Act, and

(b)the declaration of a state of emergency made on March 18, 2020, and any extension of that declaration, under section 9 of the Emergency Program Act;

"eligible person" means an adult

(a)with whom a director has entered into an agreement,

(b)who was, on or after March 17, 2020, enrolled in a program referred to in the agreement, and

(c)who did not voluntarily cease enrolment in the program during the suspension period;

"end of the COVID-19 emergency" means the later of the following:

(a)the date on which the provincial health officer provides notice under section 59 (b) of the Public Health Act that the COVID-19 emergency has passed;

(b)the date on which the last extension of the declaration of a state of emergency, referred to in paragraph (b) of the definition of "COVID-19 emergency", expires or is cancelled;

"enrolled", in relation to a life skills or rehabilitative program, includes to be registered or otherwise listed as a person who is taking part in the program;

"program" means any of the following types of programs that are referred to in an eligible adult's agreement:

(a)an educational or vocational training program;

(b)a life skills or rehabilitative program;

"suspension period" means the period that begins March 17, 2020 and ends as follows:

(a)if the end of the COVID-19 emergency occurs on or before the 15th day of a month, on the last day of the month;

(b)if the end of the COVID-19 emergency occurs after the 15th day of a month, on the last day of the following month.

(2)This section applies despite section 8.4 and anything to the contrary in an eligible person's agreement.

(3)The running of the period set out in section 8.4 (a) is suspended, in relation to an eligible person, during the suspension period if a director is satisfied of either of the following:

(a)the eligible person is not participating in a program because the program is temporarily suspended for a reason related to the COVID-19 emergency;

(b)the eligible person

(i)is not participating in a program because the program is suspended as scheduled, and

(ii)is not employed or otherwise self-supporting for a reason related to the COVID-19 emergency.

(4)If an eligible person to whom subsection (3) applies turns 27 years old either during the suspension period or, if the eligible person's program resumes, during the current term of the program, the limit set out in section 8.4 (b) does not apply and the director may continue payments under the agreement until whichever of the following applies:

(a)on the date on which the director is satisfied that the eligible person's program will not resume;

(b)if the eligible person's program resumes, the end of the month in which the current term of the program ends.

[en. B.C. Reg. 95/2020; am. B.C. Reg. 82/2023, s. (b).]

Part 3 — Mediation

Child protection mediators
9   (1)For the purposes of section 22 of the Act, a director must establish a roster of mediators.

(2)If a director and another person agree to mediation as a means of resolving an issue relating to a child or a plan of care, the director must choose from the roster a mediator acceptable to the other person.

Assistance with costs of attending mediation
10  If a person who has agreed with a director on mediation needs assistance, the director may pay all or part of any day-to-day expenses that are necessary for the person to attend mediation, including expenses for

(a)transportation,

(b)day care, and

(c)food.

[am. B.C. Reg. 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 5.]

Part 4 — Indigenous Organizations and
Designated Representatives

Repealed
10.1  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 211/2024, App. 1, s. 1.]

Indigenous organizations
11  For the purpose of being informed by the director under section 33.1 (4) (c), 34 (3) (d), 36 (2.1) (e) or 42.1 (3) (c) of the Act about presentation hearings,

(a)the Indigenous organizations listed in Column 2 of Schedule 1 are prescribed for cases involving First Nations children of the First Nations listed opposite in Column 1, and

(b)the Indigenous organizations listed in Column 2 of Schedule 2 are prescribed for cases involving Indigenous children, other than Treaty First Nation children, Nisg̱a'a children and children referred to in paragraph (a),

(i)who are 12 years of age or over and have identified any of the Indigenous communities listed opposite in Column 1, or

(ii)who are under 12 years of age and whose parents have identified any of the Indigenous communities listed opposite in Column 1.

[en. B.C. Reg. 17/2019, App., s. 7.]

Designated representatives
12   (1)The designated representative of a First Nation is as follows:

(a)if the First Nation is named in Column 1 of Schedule 1, a person who holds a position listed opposite in Column 3;

(b)if the First Nation is not named in Column 1 of Schedule 1, a person who, for that First Nation,

(i)holds the position of First Nation manager,

(ii)holds a position of social development officer, or

(iii)if there is neither a First Nation manager nor a social development officer for that First Nation, holds an equivalent position.

(2)The designated representative of the Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government is a person who holds a position listed in Schedule 1A.

(2.1)The designated representative of a Treaty First Nation listed in Column 1 of Schedule 1B is a person who holds a position listed opposite in Column 2.

(3)The designated representative of an Indigenous community listed in Column 1 of Schedule 2 is a person who holds a position listed opposite in Column 3.

[en. B.C. Reg. 331/2002, App. 2, s. 3; am. B.C. Regs. 36/2009, s. 2; 17/2019, App., s. 8; 211/2024, App. 1, s. 2.]

Part 4.1 — Agreements with Indigenous Communities

Additional purposes
12.1  The following purposes are prescribed in respect of which a director may make an agreement under section 92.1 (2) (c) of the Act:

(a)to assist the First Nation, Nisg̱a'a Nation, Treaty First Nation or Indigenous community to fulfill its shared responsibility for the upbringing and well-being of its Indigenous children by providing to the First Nation, Nisg̱a'a Nation, Treaty First Nation or Indigenous community, on a regular basis,

(i)the name, date of birth and care status of all of its Indigenous children whose care status is described by one of the following:

(A)a child in care;

(B)a child who is not described in clause (A) and who is the subject of an interim order for custody or a temporary custody order made under the Act, and

(ii)the names of the parents of each child referred to in subparagraph (i) unless the child is a child in care under section 6 or 7 of the Act;

(b)to involve the First Nation, Nisg̱a'a Nation, Treaty First Nation or Indigenous community in the development of less disruptive measures respecting the Indigenous children of the First Nation, Nisg̱a'a Nation, Treaty First Nation or Indigenous community.

[en. B.C. Reg. 17/2019, App., s. 9.]

Part 4.2 — Indigenous Authorities and Orders Respecting Indigenous Law

Division 1 — Interpretation

Definition
12.2  In this Part, "Indigenous authority confirmation" means, in respect of an Indigenous child, the confirmation and, if applicable, request provided by an Indigenous authority to a director under the following provisions of the Act:

(a)section 33.02 (b), in the case of

(i)a confirmation that the Indigenous authority is or will be providing Indigenous child and family services in accordance with an Indigenous law, and

(ii)a request that the director withdraw

provided before a presentation hearing or before the conclusion of a presentation hearing;

(b)section 48.1 (b), in the case of

(i)a confirmation that the Indigenous authority is or will be providing Indigenous child and family services in accordance with an Indigenous law, and

(ii)a request that the director withdraw

provided after a presentation hearing;

(c)section 50.02 (1), in the case of a confirmation that the Indigenous authority intends to have custody, under an Indigenous law, of an Indigenous child who is in the continuing custody of the director.

[en. B.C. Reg. 275/2023, App., s. 5.]

Division 2 — Indigenous Authorities

Indigenous authority confirmation
12.3   (1)For the purposes of section 33.02 (b), 48.1 (b) or 50.02 (1) of the Act, an Indigenous authority confirmation may be

(a)in Form I, or

(b)in a form determined by the Indigenous authority.

(2)The Indigenous authority confirmation must include the following information:

(a)the child's name and, if known, date of birth;

(b)the name of the Indigenous authority;

(c)the name of an individual, or the position held by an individual, authorized to accept service on behalf of the Indigenous authority and the relevant address for service;

(d)identification of the Indigenous law that applies to the child;

(e)confirmation that the Indigenous authority

(i)is or will be providing child and family services in accordance with the Indigenous law, in the case of

(A)a confirmation and request described in section 33.02 of the Act provided before a presentation hearing or before the conclusion of a presentation hearing, or

(B)a confirmation and request described in section 48.1 of the Act provided after a presentation hearing, or

(ii)intends to have custody of the child under the Indigenous law, in the case of a confirmation described in section 50.02 (1) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 275/2023, App., s. 5.]

Division 3 — Orders Respecting Indigenous Law

Definitions
12.4  In this Division:

"applicant" has the same meaning as in

(a)section 33.04 (1) of the Act, in respect of an Indigenous law order application relating to an order respecting Indigenous law made under subsection (8) of that section,

(b)section 48.3 (1) of the Act, in respect of an Indigenous law order application relating to an order respecting Indigenous law made under subsection (8) of that section, or

(c)section 50.03 (1) of the Act, in respect of an Indigenous law order application relating to an order respecting Indigenous law made under subsection (8) of that section;

"Indigenous law order application" means an application for an order respecting Indigenous law;

"order respecting Indigenous law" means an order made under section 33.04 (8), 48.3 (8) or 50.03 (8) of the Act;

"registered mail" means any method of mail delivery provided by Canada Post for which confirmation of delivery to a named person is available;

"relevant person" means a person described in the following provisions of the Act:

(a)section 33.03 (1);

(b)section 48.2 (1);

(c)section 50.02 (2).

[en. B.C. Reg. 275/2023, App., s. 5.]

Notification of withdrawal — before presentation hearing or before conclusion of presentation hearing
12.5   (1)For the purposes of section 33.03 of the Act, a director's notification to a relevant person may be provided

(a)in writing, or

(b)by speaking to the person by telephone.

(2)A written notification under subsection (1) (a) to a relevant person who may be an applicant must be in Form J.

(3)A written notification under subsection (1) (a) must be delivered

(a)personally,

(b)by registered mail, email or fax, as applicable, to the mailing address, email address or fax number that has been confirmed by the relevant person,

(c)by registered mail, to the address where the director has had recent contact with the relevant person

(i)in person at the relevant person's address, or

(ii)by mail from the relevant person, or

(d)by email or fax, as applicable, to the email address or fax number from which the relevant person has recently contacted the director.

(4)Subject to subsection (6), the date of notification is, if delivered

(a)personally, the day the notification is delivered,

(b)by registered mail, the day the notification is delivered,

(c)by email or fax and

(i)if the notification is transmitted before 4 p.m. on a business day, the day of transmission, or

(ii)if the notification is transmitted on a day that is not a business day, or after 4 p.m. on a business day, the next business day after the date of transmission.

(5)Subject to subsection (6), the date of notification by telephone under subsection (1) (b) is the day that the notification is provided by the director speaking to the relevant person by telephone.

(6)If a director notifies a relevant person by more than one method, the notification is effective on the date that the relevant person was first notified.

[en. B.C. Reg. 275/2023, App., s. 5.]

Notice of withdrawal — after presentation hearing
12.6   (1)For the purposes of section 48.2 of the Act, a director's notice to a relevant person who may be an applicant must be in Form J.

(2)The notice under subsection (1) must be served in accordance with Rule 6 of the Provincial Court (Child, Family and Community Service Act) Rules.

[en. B.C. Reg. 275/2023, App., s. 5.]

Notice of custody intent of Indigenous authority
12.7   (1)For the purposes of section 50.02 of the Act, a director's notice to a relevant person who may be an applicant must be in Form K.

(2)The notice under subsection (1) must be served in accordance with Rule 6 of the Provincial Court (Child, Family and Community Service Act) Rules.

[en. B.C. Reg. 275/2023, App., s. 5.]

Repealed
12.8  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 102/2024, App., s. 1.]

Part 5 — Administrative Reviews

Repealed
13  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 6.]

Director to designate persons to conduct reviews
14   (1)A director must designate a person or persons as a review authority to conduct administrative reviews.

(2)A person who was involved in the matter under review must not be designated as a review authority for that matter.

[am. B.C. Reg. 57/2012, s. 1.]

Request for review
15   (0.1)In this section:

"delegate of the Representative for Children and Youth" means a person acting under authority delegated to the person under section 8 of the Representative for Children and Youth Act to perform the functions under section 6 (a) (ii) of that Act;

"Representative for Children and Youth" means the Representative for Children and Youth appointed under section 2 of the Representative for Children and Youth Act;

"young adult" means a person who has entered into an agreement, or is eligible to enter into an agreement, with a director under section 12.3 of the Act.

(1)Any of the following persons may, at any time, request an administrative review set out in subsection (1.1):

(a)the child;

(b)the young adult;

(c)a parent of the child;

(d)the Representative for Children and Youth or a delegate of the Representative for Children and Youth;

(e)any person representing the child, young adult or parent.

(1.1)The persons set out in subsection (1) may request an administrative review of the following:

(a)any decision, act or failure to act of a director that relates to a service to a child, young adult or family under Part 2, 2.1, 3 or 4 of the Act;

(b)a decision respecting section 75, 76, 77 or 79 of the Act;

(c)a request for or collection of information by the director under section 96 of the Act.

(2)A request for an administrative review

(a)must be made to a director, and

(b)may be made in writing, in person, by telephone or by any other means.

(3)A director must ensure that information about the right to request an administrative review and about the review process is available to anyone

(a)who asks the director to provide services under Part 2, 2.1, 3 or 4 of the Act,

(b)who is provided with those services,

(c)who exercises a right in relation to section 76, or

(d)to whom the director refuses to disclose information under section 77.

[am. B.C. Regs. 400/99, s. 5; 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 7; 57/2012, s. 2; 273/2012, ss. 1 and 2 (a); 56/2024, Sch.]

Decision not to proceed with review
16   (1)A review authority may decide not to proceed with an administrative review if

(a)the review authority considers that the request for review does not relate to a matter mentioned in section 15 (1),

(b)the child or young adult, as applicable, who would be the subject of the review, or the person who requested the review, does not want to proceed with the review,

(c)the director and the person who requested the review agree to an alternate mechanism for resolving the matter,

(d)the director resolves the matter to the satisfaction of the person who requested the review,

(e)the matter is before the court, or

(f)the review authority considers that the remedy sought from it would conflict with an order or decision of the court.

(2)On deciding not to proceed with an administrative review, the review authority must notify the person who requested the review of the decision and the reasons.

[am. B.C. Regs. 400/99, s. 6; 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 8; 57/2012, s. 3.]

How reviews are conducted
17   (1)A review authority

(a)must commence an administrative review as soon as possible after a request is made, and

(b)must complete the review within 30 days after the request is made, unless

(i)the review authority decides under section 16 not to proceed with the review, or

(ii)the review authority and the person who requested the review agree to extend the time limit.

(2)The review authority must make reasonable efforts to determine the views of

(a)the child, if the child is the subject of the review,

(a.1)the young adult, if the young adult is the subject of the review,

(b)the person requesting the administrative review, and

(c)the director concerned.

(3)The review authority may seek the views of and information from any person if the review authority believes it necessary to do so in order to make a decision about the review.

[am. B.C. Reg. 57/2012, s. 4.]

Factors to be considered
18  In arriving at its decision, a review authority must consider

(a)the principles in sections 2 and 3 of the Act,

(b)the policies and procedures for the administration of the Act, and

(c)available resources.

Outcome of review
19   (1)On completing the administrative review, the review authority may recommend that the director concerned do anything that could legally have been done in the circumstances under review.

(2)Within 7 days of completing the administrative review, the review authority must provide a copy of its decision to

(a)the person who requested the review, including a child or young adult,

(a.1)the child, if the child is the subject of the review and will not be provided a copy of the decision under paragraph (a), unless, in the opinion of the review authority, it is not in the child's best interests to provide the child with a copy of the decision,

(a.2)the young adult, if the young adult is the subject of the review and will not be provided a copy of the decision under paragraph (a),

(b)the director, and

(c)any other person the review authority considers necessary to ensure that the Act is administered in accordance with the principles in sections 2 and 3 of the Act.

[am. B.C. Regs. 57/2012, s. 5; 273/2012, s. 2 (b).]

Part 5.1 — Reviews Relating to Services

Criteria for when a director must consider conducting a review
19.1   (1)In this section, "critical injury" means an injury to a child that may

(a)result in the child's death, or

(b)cause serious or long-term impairment of the child's health.

(2)After a director becomes aware of the critical injury or death of a child, the director must consider conducting a review of that critical injury or death if

(a)the child or the child's family was receiving a service under the Act at the time of, or in the year previous to, the critical injury or death of the child, and

(b)in the opinion of the director, the service received, or a policy or practice relating to the service received, may have significantly contributed to the critical injury or death of the child.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2007, s. (a).]

Part 6

Repealed
20-24  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 9.]

Part 7 — Other Provisions

Definition for disclosure purposes
25  For the purposes of disclosure under section 64 of the Act before a protection hearing, "party to a proceeding" includes any of the following:

(a)each parent of the child;

(b)a director;

(c)in the case of an Indigenous child,

(i)if the child is a First Nation child, a representative of that First Nation,

(ii)if the child is a Nisg̱a'a child, a representative of the Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government,

(ii.1)if the child is a Treaty First Nation child, a representative of the Treaty First Nation, and

(iii)in any other case,

(A)if the child is 12 years of age or older, a representative of an Indigenous community identified by the child, or

(B)if the child is under 12 years of age, a representative of an Indigenous community identified by the parents of the child;

(d)any person specified by the court.

[am. B.C. Regs. 331/2002, App. 2, s. 4; 36/2009, s. 3; 17/2019, App., s. 10.]

Disclosure of personal information in reports relating to services
25.1   (1)In this section, "third party" means any person.

(2)For the purposes of releasing a finalized report or part of a finalized report under section 79 (g.2) of the Act, a director must not disclose personal information in the report or part of the report if the disclosure would be an unreasonable invasion of a third party's personal privacy under section 22 (2) to (4) of the Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 188/2007, s. (b).]

Repealed
26  Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 350/2005, Sch. 4, s. 10.]

Forms
27  The forms in Schedule 3 are prescribed for the purposes of the Act and this regulation.

Schedule 1

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/2024, App. 1, s. 3.]

First Nations

Column 1
First Nation	Column 2
Indigenous organization	Column 3
Designated representative
ʔAkisq'nuk First Nation	ʔAkisq'nuk First Nation	Senior Administrative Officer
ʔaqam	ʔaqam	Chief Administrative Officer
ʔEsdilagh First Nation	ʔEsdilagh First Nation	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Adams Lake	Adams Lake	First Nation Social Worker
Ahousaht	Ahousaht	Family Care Worker
Aitchelitz	Aitchelitz	Chief for Aitchelitz First Nation
Ashcroft	Ashcroft	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Beecher Bay	Beecher Bay	First Nation Chief or
First Nation Social Worker
Binche Whut'en	Binche Whut'en	Jurisdiction Coordinator
Blueberry River First Nations	Blueberry River First Nations	Health Director
Bonaparte First Nation (Stucwtewsemc Bonaparte First Nation)	Bonaparte First Nation (Stucwtewsemc Bonaparte First Nation)	Social Development Manager
Boothroyd	Boothroyd	Band Manager
Boston Bar First Nation	Boston Bar First Nation	Chief of Boston Bar First Nation
Bridge River	Bridge River	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Campbell River	Campbell River	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Cayoose Creek	Cayoose Creek	First Nation Social Worker
Chawathil (Chawathil First Nation)	Chawathil (Chawathil First Nation)	Child and Family Advocate or
Designated Band Representative
Cheam	Cheam	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Cheslatta Carrier Nation	Cheslatta Carrier Nation	First Nation Social Worker
Coldwater	Coldwater	Social Development Coordinator
Cook's Ferry	Cook's Ferry	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Cowichan	Cowichan	Cowichan Tribes General Manager
Da'naxda'xw First Nation	Da'naxda'xw First Nation	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Dease River	Dease River	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Ditidaht	Ditidaht	Community Services Manager or
Social Development Worker
Doig River First Nation	Doig River First Nation	Community Social Worker
Douglas (Xa'xtsa First Nation)	Douglas (Xa'xtsa First Nation)	Administrator
Dzawada'enuxw First Nation	Dzawada'enuxw First Nation	Social Development Worker
Ehattesaht	Ehattesaht	Ehattesaht Family Care Worker
Esk'etemc (Esk'etemc First Nation)	Esk'etemc (Esk'etemc First Nation)	First Nations Representative
Esquimalt (Esquimalt Nation)	Esquimalt (Esquimalt Nation)	Esquimalt Nation Council Member
Fort Nelson First Nation	Fort Nelson First Nation	Family Support Worker or
Designated Band Representative
Gitanmaax (Gitanmaax First Nation)	Gitanmaax (Gitanmaax First Nation)	Director of Family Services or
Social Worker
Gitanyow	Gitanyow	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Gitga'at First Nation	Gitga'at First Nation	Band Manager
Gitsegukla	Gitsegukla	Social Development Manager
Gitwangak	Gitwangak	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Gitxaala Nation	Gitxaala Nation	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Glen Vowell	Glen Vowell	Social Development Manager and
Education Coordinator
Gwa'sala-Nakwaxda'xw (Gwa'sala-‘Nakwaxda'xw)	Gwa'sala-Nakwaxda'xw (Gwa'sala-‘Nakwaxda'xw)	Director for Child and Family Services or
Case Manager
Gwawaenuk Tribe	Gwawaenuk Tribe	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Hagwilget Village Council	Hagwilget Village Council	Family Support Worker
Haisla Nation	Haisla Nation	Haisla Nation Social Development Coordinator
Halalt	Halalt	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Halfway River First Nation	Halfway River First Nation	Family Support Program Manager
Heiltsuk	Heiltsuk	Designated Band Representative or
Heiltsuk Family Services Advocate
Hesquiaht	Hesquiaht	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
High Bar	High Bar	Services Coordinator
Homalco (Xwemalhkwu First Nation)	Homalco (Xwemalhkwu First Nation)	Band Social Development Worker or
Maternal Child Health Coordinator
Hupacasath First Nation	Hupacasath First Nation	Social Development Coordinator
Iskut	Iskut	Program Manager for Child and Family Programs or
Family Support Worker
Kanaka Bar	Kanaka Bar	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Katzie	Katzie	First Nation Social Development Worker
Kispiox	Kispiox	Designated Band Representative
Kitasoo Xai'xais Nation	Kitasoo Xai'xais Nation	Representative Services Liaison
Kitselas (Kitselas First Nation)	Kitselas (Kitselas First Nation)	Social Development Officer or
Director of Community Services
Kitsumkalum	Kitsumkalum	Band Social Worker
Klahoose First Nation	Klahoose First Nation	Social Worker
K'ómoks First Nation	K'ómoks First Nation	Harm Reduction Coordinator or
Social Development Coordinator
Kwadacha Nation	Kwadacha Nation	Manager of Family and Elder Services or
Coordinator of Family Support Services
Kwakiutl	Kwakiutl	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Kwantlen First Nation	Kwantlen First Nation	Nations Executive Managing Officer,
Chief of Kwantlen First Nation or
Elder Coordinator and Community Support
Kwaw-kwaw-Apilt	Kwaw-kwaw-Apilt	Councillor
Kwiakah (Kwiakah First Nation)	Kwiakah (Kwiakah First Nation)	Band Manager
Kwikwasut'inuxw Haxwa'mis	Kwikwasut'inuxw Haxwa'mis	Community Health and Social Development Representative
Kwikwetlem First Nation	Kwikwetlem First Nation	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Lake Babine Nation	Lake Babine Nation	Family Support Worker, Band Designated Representative or
Coordinator
Lax Kw'alaams (Lax Kw'alaams First Nation)	Lax Kw'alaams (Lax Kw'alaams First Nation)	Family Care Worker
Leq'á:mel First Nation	Leq'á:mel First Nation	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Lheidli T'enneh	Lheidli T'enneh	Family Development Coordinator or
Lheidli Executive Director
Lhoosk'uz Dene Nation	Lhoosk'uz Dene Nation	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Lhtako Dene Nation	Lhtako Dene Nation	Family Support Worker
Lil'wat Nation	Lil'wat Nation	Director of Lil'wat Child and Family Services or
Band Social Worker and Advocate
Lower Kootenay	Lower Kootenay	Band Social Development Worker
Lower Nicola	Lower Nicola	First Nation Administrator
Lower Similkameen	Lower Similkameen	Social Program Supervisor
Lyackson	Lyackson	Director of Operations, Reception or
Administrative Assistant
Lytton	Lytton	Child Welfare Advocate
Malahat Nation	Malahat Nation	Designated Band Representative or Director of
Early Learning, Child and Family Supports
Mamalilikulla First Nation	Mamalilikulla First Nation	Designated Band Representative or
Elected Chief Councillor
Matsqui First Nation	Matsqui First Nation	Xyolhemeylh Portfolio Holder
McLeod Lake	McLeod Lake	Family Worker
Metlakatla First Nation	Metlakatla First Nation	First Nation Social Worker
Mowachaht/Muchalaht (Mowachaht/Muchalaht First Nation)	Mowachaht/Muchalaht (Mowachaht/Muchalaht First Nation)	Health and Social Services Manager
Musqueam	Musqueam	Band Social Worker or
Band Representative
N'Quatqua (N'Quatqua First Nation)	N'Quatqua (N'Quatqua First Nation)	Elected Council
Nadleh Whut'en	Nadleh Whut'en	Band Designated Worker
Nak'azdli Whut'en (Nak'azdli Whut'en First Nation)	Nak'azdli Whut'en (Nak'azdli Whut'en First Nation)	Nak'azdli Band Representative
Namgis First Nation (Nãmgis First Nation)	Namgis First Nation (Nãmgis First Nation)	Program Manager or
Social Worker
Nanoose First Nation	Nanoose First Nation	Director of Operations
Nazko First Nation	Nazko First Nation	First Nation Counsellor
Nee-Tahi-Buhn (Nee-Tahi-Buhn Indian Band)	Nee-Tahi-Buhn (Nee-Tahi-Buhn Indian Band)	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Neskonlith	Neskonlith	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
New Westminster (Qayqayt First Nation)	New Westminster (Qayqayt First Nation)	Chief of Qayqayt First Nation
Nicomen	Nicomen	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Nooaitch	Nooaitch	First Nation Social Development Coordinator
Nuchatlaht	Nuchatlaht	Community Health Representative and
Social Development Worker, Band Administrator or
Community Services Manager
Nuxalk Nation	Nuxalk Nation	Land Based Healing Planner and
Mental Wellness Manager or
Senior Executive Assistant
Office of the Wet'suwet'en	Office of the Wet'suwet'en	Director of Jurisdiction, ANABIP Coordinator or
Prevention Coordinator
Okanagan (Okanagan Indian Band)	Okanagan (Okanagan Indian Band)	Child, Youth and Family Advocate or
Family Support Worker
Old Massett Village Council (Old Massett Village)	Old Massett Village Council (Old Massett Village)	Haida Nation Designated Representative — Old Massett
Oregon Jack Creek	Oregon Jack Creek	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Osoyoos (Osoyoos Indian Band)	Osoyoos (Osoyoos Indian Band)	Social Services Manager
Pacheedaht First Nation	Pacheedaht First Nation	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Pauquachin (Pauquachin First Nation)	Pauquachin (Pauquachin First Nation)	Councillor, Chief or
Administrator
Penelakut Tribe	Penelakut Tribe	Chief of Penelakut Tribe
Penticton	Penticton	First Nation Manager or
First Nation Social Worker
Peters First Nation	Peters First Nation	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Popkum First Nation	Popkum First Nation	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Prophet River First Nation	Prophet River First Nation	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Qualicum First Nation	Qualicum First Nation	Band Social Development Worker or
Health Director
Quatsino (Quatsino First Nation)	Quatsino (Quatsino First Nation)	Director of Family Services
Saik'uz First Nation	Saik'uz First Nation	First Nation Family Care Worker
Samahquam (Samahquam First Nation)	Samahquam (Samahquam First Nation)	Social Development and Indian Registry Administrator
Saulteau First Nations	Saulteau First Nations	Family Support
Seabird Island	Seabird Island	Child and Family Advocate
shíshálh Nation	shíshálh Nation	Strengthening Family Worker and
Band Representative
Semiahmoo	Semiahmoo	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Shackan	Shackan	First Nation Social Development Coordinator
Shuswap Band	Shuswap Band	Councillor or Chief
Shxwhá:y Village	Shxwhá:y Village	First Nation Family Support Worker
Shxw'ow'hamel First Nation (Shxw'ōwhámél First Nation)	Shxw'ow'hamel First Nation (Shxw'ōwhámél First Nation)	Social Programs Manager and Health Director
Simpcw First Nation	Simpcw First Nation	Family Preservation Caseworker and
Income Clerk, Band Social Worker or
Social Development Manager
Siska	Siska	First Nation Manager or
First Nation Social Worker
Skatin	Skatin	Band Social Development Worker or
Band Education Coordinator
Skawahlook First Nation	Skawahlook First Nation	Office Manager
Skeetchestn	Skeetchestn	Social Worker
Skidegate	Skidegate	Band Social Development Worker
Skin Tyee	Skin Tyee	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Skowkale (Sq'ewqeyl First Nation)	Skowkale (Sq'ewqeyl First Nation)	First Nation Chief, First Nation Councillor or
Executive Director
Skuppah	Skuppah	Councillor
Skwah	Skwah	Child and Family Services Portfolio First Nation Councillor
Skwlax te Secwepemculecw	Skwlax te Secwepemculecw	First Nation Social Worker
Snuneymuxw First Nation	Snuneymuxw First Nation	Designated Family Worker
Songhees Nation	Songhees Nation	First Nation Social Worker
Soowahlie	Soowahlie	Councillor
Splatsin	Splatsin	Director of Child Welfare
Spuzzum	Spuzzum	Spuzzum First Nation Councillor or
Spuzzum First Nation Chief
Sq'éwlets	Sq'éwlets	First Nation Manager or Social Development Officer
Squamish	Squamish	Executive Director of People Services
Squiala First Nation	Squiala First Nation	Health and Education Manager
Stellat'en First Nation	Stellat'en First Nation	Social Development Manager
Sts'ailes	Sts'ailes	Snowoyelh Executive Director
Stswecem'c Xget'tem First Nation	Stswecem'c Xget'tem First Nation	Director of Family Services
Stz'uminus First Nation	Stz'uminus First Nation	Family Advocate
Sumas First Nation	Sumas First Nation	First Nation Community Development Coordinator or
Education Coordinator
T'Sou-ke First Nation	T'Sou-ke First Nation	Administrator
Tahltan	Tahltan	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Takla Nation	Takla Nation	Holistic Service Director
Taku River Tlingit	Taku River Tlingit	Social Program Manager
T'it'q'et	T'it'q'et	Health and Social Services Manager
Tk'emlúps te Secwépemc	Tk'emlúps te Secwépemc	Tkwenem7íple7 (Councillor) or
Community Services Manager
Tl'azt'en Nation	Tl'azt'en Nation	First Nation Family Care Worker
Tl'etinqox Government	Tl'etinqox Government	Family Support Worker
Tla-o-qui-aht First Nations	Tla-o-qui-aht First Nations	Family Care Worker
Tlatlasikwala	Tlatlasikwala	Chief Councillor
Tlowitsis Tribe (Tlowitsis First Nation)	Tlowitsis Tribe (Tlowitsis First Nation)	Administrator
Tobacco Plains	Tobacco Plains	Chief of First Nation or
Wellness Director
Toosey	Toosey	Family Support Worker
Ts'il Kaz Koh	Ts'il Kaz Koh	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Ts'kw'aylaxw First Nation	Ts'kw'aylaxw First Nation	First Nation Social Development Worker
Ts'uubaa-asatx	Ts'uubaa-asatx	Operations Manager
Tsal'alh	Tsal'alh	First Nation Social Development Worker
Tsartlip	Tsartlip	Councillor
Tsawout First Nation (SȾÁUTW̱ First Nation)	Tsawout First Nation (SȾÁUTW̱ First Nation)	SȾÁUTW̱ First Nation Council Member
Tsay Keh Dene	Tsay Keh Dene	Social Development Manager
Tseshaht	Tseshaht	Crisis Care and Wellness Coordinator
Tseycum	Tseycum	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Tsleil-Waututh Nation	Tsleil-Waututh Nation	Social Development Director
Tsq'escen' First Nation (Tsq̓éscen̓ First Nation)	Tsq'escen' First Nation (Tsq̓éscen̓ First Nation)	Senior Manager — Wellness, Child and
Family Well-being Lead Advocate or
Child and Family Advocate
Tzeachten (Ch'íyáqtel First Nation)	Tzeachten (Ch'íyáqtel First Nation)	Director of Community Services
Tŝideldel First Nation	Tŝideldel First Nation	Family Support Worker
Ulkatcho	Ulkatcho	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Union Bar First Nation	Union Bar First Nation	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Upper Nicola	Upper Nicola	First Nation Social Worker
Upper Similkameen	Upper Similkameen	Band Social Development Worker and
Family Support Coordinator
We Wai Kai Nation	We Wai Kai Nation	Social Development Manager
West Moberly First Nations	West Moberly First Nations	Social Worker
Westbank First Nation	Westbank First Nation	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Wet'suwet'en First Nation	Wet'suwet'en First Nation	First Nation Social Development Administrator
Whispering Pines/Clinton	Whispering Pines/Clinton	First Nation Social Service Worker
Williams Lake First Nation	Williams Lake First Nation	Social Development Coordinator
Witset First Nation	Witset First Nation	Aboriginal Family Support Manager
Wuikinuxv Nation	Wuikinuxv Nation	Health Director
Xatsull First Nation	Xatsull First Nation	Health Manager
Xaxli'p	Xaxli'p	Designated Band Representative or
High-Risk Youth and Family Support Worker
Xeni Gwet'in First Nations Government	Xeni Gwet'in First Nations Government	First Nation Social Worker
Yakweakwioose	Yakweakwioose	Councillor
Yale First Nation	Yale First Nation	YFN Community Social Worker
Yekooche First Nation	Yekooche First Nation	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Yunesit'in Government	Yunesit'in Government	First Nation Manager or
Social Development Officer
Schedule 1A

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/2024, App. 1, s. 3.]

Nisg̱a'a Lisims Government

Column 1
Designated representative
Executive Director or Manager of Designated Representative
Schedule 1B

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/2024, App. 1, s. 3.]

Treaty First Nations

Column 1
First Nation	Column 2
Designated representative
Huu-ay-aht First Nations	Manager of Huu-ay-aht's Child and Family Wellness Department
Ka:'yu:'k't'h' / Che:k'tles7et'h' First Nations	Director of Community Services or
Manager of Family Services
Tla'amin Nation	Child and Family Services Manager
Toquaht	Child, Family and Community Wellness Supervisor
Tsawwassen First Nation	Health and Social Services Manager
Uchucklesaht	Director of Human Services
Ucluelet First Nation	Community Wellness Coordinator
Schedule 2

[en. B.C. Reg. 211/2024, App. 1, s. 3.]

Indigenous Communities

Column 1
Indigenous community	Column 2
Indigenous organization	Column 3
Designated representative
The Chetwynd and Region Indigenous Community	Tansi Friendship Centre	Executive Director
Tansi Friendship Centre
The Courtenay and Region Indigenous Community	Wachiay Friendship Centre Society	Director
Wachiay Friendship Centre Society
The Dawson Creek and Region Indigenous Community	Dawson Creek Aboriginal Resources Society
OR
Nawican Friendship Centre	Program Manager
Dawson Creek Aboriginal Resources Society
OR
Executive Director
Nawican Friendship Centre
The Duncan and Region Indigenous Community	Hi'ye'yu Lelum House of Friendship	Executive Director
Hi'ye'yu Lelum House of Friendship
The Fort Nelson and Region Indigenous Community	Fort Nelson/Liard Friendship Society	Executive Director
Fort Nelson/Liard Friendship Society
The Fort St. John and Region Indigenous Community	Keeginaw Friendship Centre	Legal Information Worker
Keeginaw Friendship Centre
The Kamloops and Region Indigenous Community	Interior Indian Friendship Centre	Executive Director
Interior Indian Friendship Centre
The Kelowna and Region Indigenous Community	Central Okanagan Friendship Centre Society	Executive Director
Central Okanagan Friendship Centre Society
The Lillooet and Region Indigenous Community	Lillooet Friendship Centre Society	Executive Director
Lillooet Friendship Centre Society
The Merritt and Region Indigenous Community	Conayt Friendship Centre Society	Executive Director
Conayt Friendship Centre Society
The Mission and Region Indigenous Community	Mission Indian Friendship Centre	Family Support Worker
Mission Indian Friendship Centre
The Nanaimo and Region Indigenous Community	Tillicum Haus Society	Executive Director
Tillicum Haus Society
The Port Alberni and Region Indigenous Community	Port Alberni Friendship Centre	Executive Director
Port Alberni Friendship Centre
The Prince George and Region Indigenous Community	Prince George Friendship Centre	Executive Director
Prince George Friendship Centre
The Prince Rupert and Region Indigenous Community	Friendship House Association of Prince Rupert	Executive Director
Friendship House Association of Prince Rupert
The Quesnel and Region Indigenous Community	Quesnel Tillicum Society	Assistant Executive Director
and Referral Worker
Quesnel Tillicum Society
OR
First Nation Family Support Worker
Quesnel Tillicum Society
The Smithers and Region Indigenous Community	Dze L K'ant Friendship Centre Society	Executive Director
Dze L K'ant Friendship Centre Society
The Terrace and Region Indigenous Community	Kermode Friendship Centre	Executive Director
Kermode Friendship Centre
The Vancouver and Region Indigenous Community	Vancouver Aboriginal Friendship Society	Urban Aboriginal Representative
Vancouver Aboriginal Friendship Society
The Vernon and Region Indigenous Community	North Okanagan Friendship Centre Society	Executive Director
North Okanagan Friendship Centre Society
The Victoria and Region Indigenous Community	Victoria Native Friendship Centre	Director of Social Programs
Victoria Native Friendship Centre
The Williams Lake and Region Indigenous Community	Cariboo Friendship Centre	Executive Director
Cariboo Friendship Centre
Metis Community	Metis Commission for Children and Family Services	Executive Director
Metis Commission for Children and Family Services
The Kelly Lake Indigenous Community located
southeast of Pouce Coupe	Kelly Lake First Nation Society	Chief
Kelly Lake First Nation Society
Liard River Reserve #3
located at Lower Post	Liard River Reserve #3	First Nation Manager
Inuvialuit Inuit Community
(Northwest Territories)	Inuvialuit Regional Corporation	Maligaksat Services Coordinator
Inuvialuit Regional Corporation
Nunatsiavut Inuit Community
(Labrador)	Nunatsiavut Government	Indigenous Representative
Nunatsiavut Government
Schedule 3

[am. B.C Regs. 171/98, ss. 4 to 6; 400/99, ss. 9 to 11; 350/2005, Sch. 4, ss. 13 to 16; 53/2011, Sch. 2, ss. 3 and 4; 82/2014, Sch., s. 3; 187/2018, App., s. 2; 17/2019, App., s. 1; 149/2019; 275/2023, App., ss. 6 and 7; 102/2024, App., s. 2.]

Form A







Form B





Form C

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 400/99, s. 11.]

Forms D and E

Repealed. [B.C. Reg. 350/2006, Sch. 4, s. 15.]

Form F







Form G









Form H







Form I







Form J









Form K







Form L





[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation: Child, Family and Community Service Act, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 46, s. 103.]
