Clean Energy Act
British Columbia's Energy Objectives Regulation
[Last amended February 15, 2024 by B.C. Reg. 23/2024]

Contents
1	Definitions
2	Modification of British Columbia's energy objective respecting electricity generation
3	Additions to British Columbia's energy objectives
4	Priority amongst British Columbia's energy objectives
Definitions
1  In this regulation:

"Act" means the Clean Energy Act;

"actual inflation", in relation to a calculation year, means the sum of each annual percentage change in the CPI from 2017 to that calculation year;

"calculation year", in relation to a commission decision, means the last calendar year prior to the year in which the commission makes that commission decision;

"commission decision" means any decision to be made by the commission that involves consideration of British Columbia's energy objectives;

"CPI" means the annual Consumer Price Index for British Columbia, All-items, as published by Statistics Canada under the authority of the Statistics Act (Canada);

"cumulative inflation" means the sum of actual inflation and projected annual inflation;

"projected annual inflation", in relation to a calculation year, means the commission's estimate of the sum of each annual percentage change in the CPI from that calculation year to 2030.

[en. B.C. Reg. 23/2024, s. 1.]

Modification of British Columbia's energy objective respecting electricity generation
2  The objective set out in section 2 (c) of the Act is modified as follows:

(c)by 2030, to ensure that 100% of the electricity generated in British Columbia and supplied to the integrated grid is generated from clean or renewable resources, and to ensure that the infrastructure necessary to transmit that electricity is built.

[en. B.C. Reg. 23/2024, s. 2.]

Additions to British Columbia's energy objectives
3  The objectives set out in section 2 of the Act are modified by adding the following paragraphs:

(f.1)to ensure that changes to the authority's rates

(i)are reasonably predictable, and

(ii)are reasonably consistent from year to year;

(f.2)to ensure that increases to the authority's rates do not exceed cumulative inflation;

(g.1)to ensure that the authority holds rights to a sufficient amount of clean or renewable electricity to enable British Columbia to meet the objective set out in paragraph  (g).

[en. B.C. Reg. 23/2024, s. 3.]

Priority amongst British Columbia's energy objectives
4  The energy objectives set out in section 2 (f.2) and (g) of the Act have priority over the other energy objectives set out in that section.

[en. B.C. Reg. 23/2024, s. 3.]

[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation: Clean Energy Act, S.B.C. 2010, c. 22, s. 35 (d).]

