Community Charter
Spheres of Concurrent Jurisdiction —
Environment and Wildlife Regulation
[Last amended June 18, 2024 by B.C. Reg. 155/2024]

Contents
Part 1 — Interpretation
1	Definition
Part 2 — Pest Management
1.1	Definitions for Part 2
2	Municipal jurisdiction in relation to the environment and wildlife
Part 3 — Single-use and Plastic Waste Prevention
3	Definitions for Part 3
4	Application
5	Authority of municipality
6	Packaging and single-use products composed of oxo-degradable plastic
7	Shopping bags
8	Bag charge not a fee payable to municipality
9	Food service ware composed of specified material
10	Single-use food service accessories
11	Plastic single-use utensils
12	Bundled single-use food service accessories
Schedule
Part 1 — Interpretation

Definition
1  In this regulation, "Act" means the Community Charter.

[en. B.C. Reg. 219/2021, s. 1.]

Part 2 — Pest Management

Definitions for Part 2
1.1  In this Part:

"alien invasive species" means the species listed in sections 1 and 2 of the Schedule;

"dangerous wildlife" has the same meaning as in the Wildlife Act;

"excluded pesticide" has the same meaning as in the Integrated Pest Management Regulation, B.C. Reg. 604/2004.

[en. B.C. Reg. 219/2021, s. 1.]

Municipal jurisdiction in relation to the environment and wildlife
2   (1)For the purposes of section 9 (4) (a) (i) of the Act, a municipality may,

(a)under section 8 (3) (j) of the Act, regulate, prohibit and impose requirements in relation to polluting or obstructing, or impeding the flow of, a stream, creek, waterway, watercourse, waterworks, ditch, drain or sewer, whether or not it is located on private property,

(b)regulate, prohibit and impose requirements in relation to,

(i)under section 8 (3) (j) of the Act, the sale of wild flowers,

(ii)subject to subsection (2), under section 8 (3) (j) of the Act, the application of pesticides, except excluded pesticides, for the purpose of maintaining outdoor trees, shrubs, flowers, other ornamental plants and turf on a parcel or a part of a parcel if the parcel or part is used for residential purposes, or on land vested in the municipality,

(iii)under section 8 (3) (j) and (k) of the Act, the control and eradication of alien invasive species, and

(iv)under section 8 (3) (k) of the Act, the control of wildlife species listed in Schedule B or C to the Designation and Exemption Regulation, B.C. Reg. 168/90, and

(c)under section 8 (3) (k) of the Act, regulate, prohibit and impose requirements respecting the feeding or attracting of dangerous wildlife or members of the family Cervidae.

(2)For the purposes of section 9 (4) (b) of the Act, a municipality may not exercise the authority under subsection (1) (b) (ii) of this regulation in relation to the application of pesticides

(a)for the management of pests that transmit human diseases or impact agriculture or forestry,

(b)on the residential areas of farms,

(c)to buildings or inside buildings, or

(d)on land used for agriculture, forestry, transportation, public utilities or pipelines unless the public utility or pipeline is vested in the municipality.

(3)For the purposes of subsection 9 (4) (b) of the Act, the exercise of the authority under subsection (1) (c) is subject to the condition that the bylaw must exempt from its application all the following:

(a)a person who is engaging in hunting or trapping wildlife in accordance with the Wildlife Act and its regulations;

(b)a farm operation, as defined in section 1 of the Farm Practices Protection (Right to Farm) Act, that

(i)is conducted on, in or over land anywhere in British Columbia, and

(ii)meets the requirements set out in section 2 (2) (a) and (c) of that Act;

(c)a facility for the disposal of waste that is operated in accordance with the Environmental Management Act by a municipality, a regional district, an improvement district that has as an object the disposal of sewage or refuse or the provision of a system for the disposal of sewage or refuse or the Greater Vancouver Sewerage and Drainage District.

[am. B.C. Regs. 326/2005, s. (b); 235/2008, ss. 2 to 4.]

Part 3 — Single-use and Plastic Waste Prevention

Definitions for Part 3
3  In this Part:

"biodegradable plastic" means any type of plastic that is, or is held out to be, biodegradable;

"business operator" means a person who, in the ordinary course of business, sells a commodity or product, whether by wholesale or retail;

"care facility" means any of the following:

(a)an assisted living residence as defined in section 1 of the Community Care and Assisted Living Act;

(b)a community care facility as defined in section 1 of the Community Care and Assisted Living Act;

(c)a hospital as defined in section 1 of the Hospital Act;

(d)a private hospital as defined in section 4.1 of the Hospital Act;

(e)a Provincial mental health facility as defined in section 1 of the Mental Health Act;

"compostable plastic" means any type of plastic that is, or is held out to be, compostable;

"correctional facility" means a lawful place of confinement, including, without limitation, a jail, prison, lockup, place of imprisonment, camp or correctional institution, and any land connected with it;

"customer" includes a person to whom a commodity or product is distributed for free;

"fish" means fish as defined in section 1 of the Fish and Seafood Act;

"food service accessory" means any of the following products:

(a)a beverage cup lid;

(b)a beverage cup sleeve;

(c)a condiment;

(d)a drinking straw;

(e)a garnish;

(f)a napkin;

(g)a utensil;

(h)a wet wipe;

"food service provider" means a person

(a)who, in the ordinary course of business, prepares and serves food or beverages to individuals, or

(b)in the case of a person who is not a business operator, whose activities ordinarily include preparing and serving food or beverages to individuals who are not members of the person's household;

"food service ware" means any of the following types of container or packaging:

(a)a bowl;

(b)a box or carton, including an egg carton;

(c)a cup;

(d)a hinged or lidded container;

(e)a plate;

(f)a platter;

(g)a tray;

(h)film wrap;

"oxo-degradable plastic" means a plastic that contains an additive that, through oxidation, leads to chemical decomposition or to the fragmentation of the plastic material into microfragments;

"packaging", except in section 9 (4) (b), means packaging as defined in section 1 (1) of the Environmental Management Act;

"plastic" includes any type of compostable plastic and any type of biodegradable plastic;

"prepare", when used in relation to food or beverages, means

(a)cook, slice, chop, mix, brew, squeeze or otherwise make ready to eat or drink, or

(b)remove from a container or packaging and place or repackage in a different container or package;

"recycled paper bag" means a paper bag

(a)that is composed of at least 40% recycled paper content, and

(b)on the outside of which is printed a reference to the applicable percentage of recycled content and the word "recyclable";

"restricted material" means any of the following materials:

(a)biodegradable plastic;

(b)compostable plastic;

(c)polystyrene foam;

(d)polyvinyl chloride;

(e)polyvinylidene chloride;

"reusable bag" means a bag that is manufactured to be used and machine-washed at least 100 times;

"sell" includes offer for sale;

"shopping bag" means a bag that is distributed or sold by a business operator for the purpose of facilitating the transport of a commodity or product that is distributed or sold by the business operator, from the business operator's place of business;

"single-use", when used in reference to an item, means the item is ordinarily disposed of after a single use or short-term use, whether or not it could be reused;

"splash plug" means any type of plug manufactured to prevent a beverage from spilling from the lid of its container;

"used bag" means a bag that has been previously used and is being reused;

"utensil" includes a spoon, fork, knife, chopstick, stir stick and splash plug.

[en. B.C. Reg. 155/2024.]

Application
4  The authority to establish a prohibition under section 10, 11 or 12 does not apply to food service accessories sold by a food service provider in quantities of 20 or more.

[en. B.C. Reg. 155/2024.]

Authority of municipality
5  For the purposes of section 9 (4) (a) (i) of the Act, a municipality may, under section 8 (3) (j) of the Act, regulate, prohibit and impose requirements in relation to the protection of the natural environment in accordance with this Part.

[en. B.C. Reg. 155/2024.]

Packaging and single-use products composed of oxo-degradable plastic
6   (1)A municipality may prohibit a business operator from distributing or selling packaging, or a single-use product, that is wholly or partly composed of oxo-degradable plastic.

(2)For the purposes of section 9 (4) (b) of the Act, the exercise of the authority under subsection (1) is subject to the condition that the bylaw must exclude from its application all of the following:

(a)a device as defined in the Pharmaceutical Services Act;

(b)packaging or a single-use product intended for sale or distribution to a person outside British Columbia.

[en. B.C. Reg. 155/2024.]

Shopping bags
7   (1)A municipality may do any of the following:

(a)prohibit a business operator from distributing or selling a shopping bag other than a recycled paper bag or reusable bag;

(b)require that a business operator report to the municipality respecting the sale or distribution of shopping bags.

(2)For the purposes of section 9 (4) (b) of the Act, the exercise of the authority under subsection (1) (a) is subject to the following conditions:

(a)the bylaw must permit a business operator to provide a recycled paper bag or reusable bag on payment of a charge for the bag, as follows:

(i)at least $0.25 for each recycled paper bag;

(ii)at least $2 for each reusable bag;

(b)the bylaw must include an exemption from the payment of the charge if any of the following apply:

(i)the bag is a used bag;

(ii)the bag is a paper bag that is less than 15 cm by 20 cm when flat;

(iii)the bag is a recycled paper bag and is distributed to facilitate the transport of any of the following:

(A)a drug specified in Schedule I, IA, II or III of the Drug Schedules Regulation;

(B)a device as defined in the Pharmaceutical Services Act;

(iv)the business operator is a food service provider, and the bag is a recycled paper bag that is distributed for any of the following purposes:

(A)to facilitate the transport of food or beverages that are prepared by the business operator and purchased for delivery;

(B)to contain prepared food or beverages served to a customer through a window at a drive-through restaurant;

(v)the bag

(A)is a recycled paper bag, reusable bag or used bag, and

(B)contains food, beverages or personal hygiene products that are to be provided directly or indirectly to an individual for free or at reduced cost by a society or by a registered charity as defined in section 248 (1) of the Income Tax Act (Canada).

[en. B.C. Reg. 155/2024.]

Bag charge not a fee payable to municipality
8  An amount referred to in section 7 (2) (a) must not be collected by the municipality as a fee payable to the municipality.

[en. B.C. Reg. 155/2024.]

Food service ware composed of specified material
9   (1)A municipality may do any of the following:

(a)prohibit a food service provider from distributing or selling food or beverages if the food or beverages are

(i)prepared by the food service provider for takeout, delivery or immediate consumption, and

(ii)contained or packaged in food service ware that is wholly or partly composed of a restricted material specified in the bylaw;

(b)prohibit a business operator from distributing or selling food or beverages that are contained or packaged in food service ware that is wholly or partly composed of a restricted material specified in the bylaw;

(c)prohibit a business operator from distributing or selling food service ware that is wholly or partly composed of a restricted material specified in the bylaw.

(2)For the purposes of section 9 (4) (b) of the Act, the exercise of the authority under subsection (1) (a) is subject to the condition that the bylaw must, subject to subsection (5), exclude from its application all of the following:

(a)food service ware that is wholly composed of paper or a plant fibre material and lined with compostable plastic;

(b)food or beverages intended for sale or distribution to a person outside British Columbia;

(c)film wrap that is wholly composed of polyvinyl chloride.

(3)For the purposes of section 9 (4) (b) of the Act, the exercise of the authority under subsection (1) (b) is subject to the condition that the bylaw must, subject to subsections (5) and (6), exclude from its application all of the following:

(a)food or beverages intended for sale or distribution to a person outside British Columbia;

(b)film wrap that is wholly composed of polyvinyl chloride;

(c)a tray that is wholly composed of polystyrene foam and used to contain any of the following types of food, whether fresh or frozen:

(i)raw meat;

(ii)raw poultry;

(iii)raw fish in a state not ready to be eaten.

(4)For the purposes of section 9 (4) (b) of the Act, the exercise of the authority under subsection (1) (c) is subject to the condition that the bylaw must, subject to subsections (5) and (6), exclude from its application all of the following:

(a)food service ware intended for sale or distribution to a person outside British Columbia;

(b)food service ware sold or distributed to a business operator for the purpose of containing or packaging food or beverages intended for sale to a person outside British Columbia;

(c)film wrap that is wholly composed of polyvinyl chloride;

(d)a tray that is wholly composed of polystyrene foam and sold or distributed to a business operator for the purpose of containing any of the following types of food, whether fresh or frozen:

(i)raw meat;

(ii)raw poultry;

(iii)raw fish in a state not ready to be eaten.

(5)An exclusion referred to in subsection (2) (c), (3) (b) or (4) (c) must cease to apply on July 1, 2028.

(6)An exclusion referred to in subsection (3) (c) or (4) (d) must cease to apply on July 1, 2030.

[en. B.C. Reg. 155/2024.]

Single-use food service accessories
10   (1)A municipality may prohibit a food service provider from distributing or selling a single-use food service accessory.

(2)For the purposes of section 9 (4) (b) of the Act, the exercise of the authority under subsection (1) is subject to the condition that the bylaw must provide an exception permitting the distribution or sale of a single-use food service accessory in any of the following circumstances:

(a)a customer requests, or accepts an offer of, the food service accessory, including by making a request or accepting an offer electronically;

(b)the food service accessory is made available in a self-service manner;

(c)the food service accessory is a beverage cup lid and is distributed with a beverage that is

(i)purchased for delivery, or

(ii)served through a window to a customer at a drive-through restaurant;

(d)the food service accessory is distributed or sold at a care facility for use by a person admitted to or receiving assistance, care, supervision, treatment, maintenance or rehabilitation at the care facility;

(e)the food service accessory is a utensil for use by a person confined in a correctional facility and at risk of self-harm or harming another person.

[en. B.C. Reg. 155/2024.]

Plastic single-use utensils
11   (1)A municipality may prohibit a food service provider from distributing or selling a single-use utensil that is wholly or partly composed of plastic.

(2)For the purposes of section 9 (4) (b) of the Act, the exercise of the authority under subsection (1) is subject to the condition that the bylaw must provide an exception permitting the distribution or sale of a single-use utensil wholly or partially composed of plastic for use by a person confined in a correctional facility and at risk of self-harm or harming another person.

[en. B.C. Reg. 155/2024.]

Bundled single-use food service accessories
12   (1)A municipality may prohibit a food service provider from distributing or selling a single-use food service accessory that is bundled or pre-packaged together with one or more other single-use food service accessories.

(2)For the purposes of section 9 (4) (b) of the Act, the exercise of the authority under subsection (1) is subject to the condition that the bylaw must provide an exception permitting the distribution or sale, at a care facility, of a single-use food service accessory that is bundled or pre-packaged together with one or more other single-use food service accessories for use by

(a)a person admitted to the care facility, or

(b)a person receiving assistance, care, supervision, treatment, maintenance or rehabilitation at the care facility.

[en. B.C. Reg. 155/2024.]

Schedule

1 The following species are, for the purposes of this regulation, alien invasive species.

Plants

Annual Sow Thistle (Sonchus oleraceus)

Canada Thistle (Cirsium arvense)

Common Crupina (Crupina vulgaris)

Common Toadflax (Linaria vulgaris)

Dalmatian Toadflax (Linaria dalmatica)

Diffuse Knapweed (Centaurea diffusa)

Dodder (Cuscuta spp.)

Gorse (Ulex europaeus)

Hound's-tongue (Cynoglossum officinale)

Jointed Goatgrass (Aegilops cylindrica)

Leafy Spurge (Euphorbia esula)

Perennial Sow Thistle (Sonchus arvensis)

Purple Nutsedge (Cyperus rotundus)

Rush Skeletonweed (Chondrilla juncea)

Scentless Chamomile (Matricaria maritima)

Spotted Knapweed (Centaurea maculosa)

Tansy Ragwort (Senecio jacobaea)

Velvetleaf (Abutilon theophrasti)

Wild Oats (Avena fatua)

Yellow Nutsedge (Cyperus esculentus)

Yellow Starthistle (Centaurea solstitialis)

Terrestrial Vascular Plants

Smooth brome grass

Downy brome grass

Orchard grass (coast)

Scotch broom

Spurge laurel

Common barnyard grass

English ivy

St. John's wort

Himalayan blackberry

Yellow salsify

Common Crupina

Bull thistle

Nodding thistle

Giant knotweed

Kudzu

Japanese knotweed

Giant knotweed

Giant hogweed

Poison hemlock

Yellow toadflax

Carpet burweed

Baby's breath

Parasitic Dodder

Himalayan Balsam

Saltcedar

Garlic Mustard

Fresh Water/Riparian Vascular Plants

Flowering rush

Purple loosestrife

Eurasian watermilfoil

Common reed

Curly pondweed

Reed canary grass

Yellow flag

Hydrilla

Invertebrates

Gypsy Moth

Blueberry Maggot

Balsam Woolly Adelgid

Japanese Cedar Longhorn Beetle

Japanese Beetle

Pine Shoot Beetle

Asian Long-horned Beetle

Cereal Leaf Beetle

Daylily Midge

European Chafer

European Brown Garden Snail

Oriental Fruit Moth

Apple Maggot

Plum Curculio

Vertebrates

Bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana)

Green Frog (Rana clamitans)

Rock Dove (Columba livia)

European Starling (Sturnus vulgaris)

House Sparrow (Passer domesticus)

North American Opossum (Didelphis virginiana)

European Rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus)

Eastern Cottontail (Sylvilagus floridanus)

Nutria (Myocastor coypu)

Gray Squirrel (Sciurus carolinensis)

Fox Squirrel (Sciurus niger)

2 The species set out in column 1 of Table 1 are, for the purposes of this regulation, alien invasive species in a regional district set out opposite in column 2.

Table 1

Column 1
Species	Column 2
Area of the Province
Blueweed (Echium vulgare)	Cariboo, Central Kootenay, Columbia-Shuswap, East Kootenay, Okanagan-Similkameen, Thompson-Nicola
Burdock (Arctium spp.)	Bulkley-Nechako, Cariboo, Columbia-Shuswap, Fraser-Fort George, Kitimat-Stikine, North Okanagan, Okanagan-Similkameen, Peace River, Thompson-Nicola
Cleavers (Galium aparine)	Peace River
Common Bugloss (Anchusa officinalis)	Kootenay-Boundary
Common Tansy (Tanacetum vulgare)	Bulkley-Nechako, Central Kootenay, Columbia-Shuswap, East Kootenay, North Okanagan
Field Scabious (Knautia arvensis)	Bulkley-Nechako, Kootenay-Boundary, Thompson-Nicola
Green Foxtail (Setaria viridis)	Peace River
Hoary Alyssum (Berteroa incana)	Kootenay-Boundary
Hoary Cress (Cardaria spp.)	Columbia-Shuswap, North Okanagan, Thompson-Nicola
Kochia (Kochia scoparia)	Peace River
Marsh Plume Thistle (Cirsium palustre)	Bulkley-Nechako, Fraser-Fort George
Meadow Knapweed (Centaurea pratensis)	Columbia-Shuswap
Night-flowering catchfly (Silene noctiflora)	Peace River
Orange Hawkweed (Hieracium aurantiacum)	Bulkley-Nechako, Cariboo, Central Kootenay, Columbia-Shuswap, East Kootenay, Thompson-Nicola
Oxeye Daisy (Chrysanthemum leucanthemum)	Cariboo, North Okanagan, Peace River, Thompson-Nicola
Perennial Pepperweed (Lepidium latifolium)	East Kootenay, Thompson-Nicola
Plumeless Thistle (Carduus acanthoides)	Central Kootenay
Puncturevine (Tribulus terrestris)	Okanagan-Similkameen
Quackgrass (Agropyron repens)	Peace River
Russian Knapweed (Acroptilon repens)	North Okanagan
Russian Thistle (Salsola kali)	Peace River
Scotch Thistle (Onopordum acanthium)	North Okanagan
Sulphur Cinquefoil (Potentilla recta)	Columbia-Shuswap, North Okanagan, Okanagan-Similkameen, Thompson-Nicola
Tartary Buckwheat (Fagopyrum tataricum)	Peace River
White Cockle (Lychnis alba)	Peace River
Wild Chervil (Anthriscus sylvestris)	Fraser Valley
Wild Mustard (Sinapsis arvensis)	Peace River
[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation: Community Charter, S.B.C. 2003, c. 26, s. 9 (4).]
