Energy Resource Activities Act
Service Regulation
[Last amended April 1, 2025 by B.C. Reg. 26/2025]

Definitions
1  In this regulation:

"Act" means the Energy Resource Activities Act;

"local authority" means a municipality or a regional district;

"local Indigenous nation" means, as applicable, a local Indigenous nation as defined in

(a)section 1 of the Dormancy and Shutdown Regulation, or

(b)section 1 of the Energy Resource Road Regulation;

"mailing address" includes a post office box.

[en. B.C. Reg. 52/2021, s. 1; am. B.C. Regs. 202/2023, Sch. 13; 26/2025, Sch. 10, s.1.]

Prescribed methods of service
2   (1)In addition to the methods of service set out in section 79 (1) (a) and (c) of the Act, the following methods of service are prescribed for the service of documents under the Act on a person who is not a permit holder or an authorization holder, other than a local authority, local Indigenous nation or First Nation:

(a)by leaving a copy with an agent of that person;

(b)by sending a copy by ordinary mail or registered mail to that person's residential or business mailing address;

(c)by sending a copy by electronic transmission using the contact information provided by that person;

(d)by leaving a copy in a mailbox or mail slot for the address at which that person resides or carries on business;

(e)by attaching a copy to a door or other conspicuous place at the address at which that person resides or carries on business.

(1.1)In addition to the methods of service set out in section 79 (1) (a) and (c) of the Act, the following methods of service are prescribed for the service of documents under the Act on a local authority, local Indigenous nation or First Nation that is not a permit holder or an authorization holder:

(a)by leaving a copy with

(i)an agent of the local authority, local Indigenous nation or First Nation, or

(ii)a contact person specified by the local authority, local Indigenous nation or First Nation;

(b)by sending a copy by ordinary mail or registered mail to

(i)the residential or business mailing address of a contact person specified by the local authority, local Indigenous nation or First Nation, or

(ii)if no contact person is specified, the business mailing address for the local authority, local Indigenous nation or First Nation;

(c)by sending a copy by electronic transmission

(i)using the contact information of a contact person specified by the local authority, local Indigenous nation or First Nation, or

(ii)if no contact person is specified, to the local authority, local Indigenous nation or First Nation, using the contact information provided by that local authority, local Indigenous nation or First Nation;

(d)by leaving a copy in a mailbox or mail slot for

(i)the address of a contact person specified by the local authority, local Indigenous nation or First Nation, or

(ii)if no contact person is specified, the address at which the local authority, local Indigenous nation or First Nation carries on business.

(2)A document given or served in accordance with subsection (1) or (1.1) is deemed to be received as follows:

(a)if given or served by sending a copy by ordinary or registered mail, on the 14th day after it is mailed;

(b)if given or served by sending a copy by electronic transmission, on the 3rd day after it is sent;

(c)if given or served by leaving a copy in a mailbox or mail slot, on the 3rd day after it is left;

(d)if given or served by attaching a copy to a door or other conspicuous place, on the 3rd day after it is attached.

[am. B.C. Regs. 52/2021, s. 2; 26/2025, Sch. 10, s. 2.]

[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation: Energy Resource Activities Act, S.B.C. 2008, c. 36, s. 112 (1) (l).]
