Health Professions Act
Dietitians Regulation
[Last amended January 1, 2025 by B.C. Reg. 267/2024]

Contents
1	Definitions
2	College name
3	Reserved title
4	Scope of practice
4.1	Restricted and provisional registrant classes
5	Restricted activities
6	Restricted activities for certified practice registrants
6.1	Restricted activities limited to registrants
7	Patient relations program
Definitions
1  In this regulation:

"Act" means the Health Professions Act;

"compound" means, with respect to a therapeutic diet, to mix 2 or more appropriate ingredients;

"design" includes determining

(a)the appropriate ingredients of a therapeutic diet and the volume and proportion of those ingredients, and

(b)the method and frequency of delivering the ingredients of a therapeutic diet;

"dietetics" means the health profession in which a person provides the following services:

(a)assessing, maintaining, restoring and promoting health as it relates to nutrition;

(b)planning, implementing and evaluating nutrition interventions;

(c)providing information and counselling with respect to nutrition;

"dispense" means to fill a prescription for nutrition that is to be administered orally or by enteral instillation or parenteral instillation;

"drug" means a drug specified in Schedule I or II of the Drug Schedules Regulation;

"enteral instillation" means instillation directly into the gastrointestinal tract;

"health professional" means a person who is authorized under the Act to practise the designated profession of medicine, nursing as a nurse practitioner, dentistry or naturopathic medicine;

"nutrition intervention" includes the delivery of nutrition by the following means:

(a)orally;

(b)enteral instillation;

(c)parenteral instillation;

"order" means an instruction or authorization, issued by a health professional, for a registrant to provide a service that includes the performance of an activity described in section 6 to or for a named individual whom the health professional has assessed, whether or not the instruction or authorization

(a)makes provision for the time or times at which the service is to be initiated by a registrant, or

(b)incorporates by reference, in whole or in part and with any changes the health professional considers necessary or appropriate, a guideline, protocol or other recorded description of a course of action or decision-making process to be used by a registrant in providing the service to or for a specified class or individuals;

"parenteral instillation" means instillation directly into the blood stream;

"registrant" means a registrant who is authorized under the bylaws to practise dietetics;

"substance" includes air and water but excludes a drug specified in Schedule I, IA or II of the Drug Schedules Regulation;

"therapeutic diet" means a diet that

(a)includes drugs, substances or both, and

(b)is designed for the purpose of preventing or treating a disease, disorder or condition that may be significantly affected by nutrition.

[en. B.C. Reg. 267/2024, Sch. 1, s. 1; am. B.C. Reg. 267/2024, Sch. 2, s. 1.]

College name
2  The name of the college responsible for carrying out the objects of the Act in respect of dietetics is "College of Health and Care Professionals of British Columbia".

[en. B.C. Reg. 32/2024, Sch. 1, s. 1.]

Reserved title
3  The title "dietitian" is reserved for exclusive use by registrants.

Scope of practice
4  A registrant may practise dietetics.

Restricted and provisional registrant classes
4.1  The college is authorized to establish, under section 19 (1) (i) of the Act, a class of

(a)restricted registrants for the purposes of section 20 (4.2) of the Act, and

(b)provisional registrants for the purposes of section 20 (4.3) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 32/2024, Sch. 1, s. 2.]

Restricted activities
5  A registrant in the course of practising dietetics may do any of the following:

(a)design, compound, dispense and administer a therapeutic diet, if nutrition is administered by enteral instillation;

(b)design a therapeutic diet, if nutrition is administered by parenteral instillation.

[en. B.C. Reg. 267/2024, Sch. 1, s. 1.]

Restricted activities for certified practice registrants
6   (1)A registrant in the course of practising dietetics may, for the purpose of administering nutrition by enteral instillation, put an instrument or a device, hand or finger

(a)beyond the point in the nasal passages where they normally narrow,

(b)beyond the pharynx, or

(c)into an artificial opening into the body.

(2)A registrant may provide a service that includes the performance of an activity described in subsection (1) only if both of the following conditions are met:

(a)before providing the service, the registrant has successfully completed a certification program established, required or approved under the bylaws to ensure that registrants are qualified and competent to provide that service in the practice setting in which it is to be provided by the registrant;

(b)if the registrant provides the service for the purpose of implementing an order.

[en. B.C. Reg. 267/2024, Sch. 2, s. 2.]

Restricted activities limited to registrants
6.1  Only a registrant may provide a service that includes the performance of an activity set out in section 5 or 6 (1).

[en. B.C. Reg. 267/2024, Sch. 1, s. 2.]

Patient relations program
7  The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f) of the Act.

[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation: Health Professions Act, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, s. 12 (2).]
