Health Professions Act
Physical Therapists Regulation
[Last amended June 28, 2024 by B.C. Reg. 32/2024]

Contents
1	Definitions
2	College name
3	Reserved titles
4	Scope of practice
4.1	Restricted and provisional registrant classes
5	Restricted activities
6	Limit or condition on service
7	Patient relations program
8	Health profession corporations
Definitions
1  In this regulation:

"Act" means the Health Professions Act;

"physical therapy" means the treatment of the human body by physical or mechanical means, by manipulation, massage, exercise, the application of bandages, hydrotherapy and medical electricity, for the therapeutic purpose of maintaining or restoring function that has been impaired by injury or disease.

College name
2  The name of the college responsible for carrying out the objects of the Act in respect of physical therapy is "College of Health and Care Professionals of British Columbia".

[en. B.C. Reg. 32/2024, Sch. 5, s. 1.]

Reserved titles
3  The following titles are reserved for exclusive use by registrants:

(a)physical therapist;

(b)registered physical therapist;

(c)physiotherapist;

(d)registered physiotherapist;

(e)remedial gymnast;

(f)registered remedial gymnast.

Scope of practice
4  A registrant may practise physical therapy.

Restricted and provisional registrant classes
4.1  The college is authorized to establish, under section 19 (1) (i) of the Act, a class of

(a)restricted registrants for the purposes of section 20 (4.2) of the Act, and

(b)provisional registrants for the purposes of section 20 (4.3) of the Act.

[en. B.C. Reg. 32/2024, Sch. 5, s. 2.]

Restricted activities
5   (1)No person other than a registrant may practise physical therapy.

(2)Subsection (1) does not apply to a person employed by and on the premises of a hospital which has been designated by the minister and who is acting under the direction of a medical practitioner.

Limit or condition on service
6  No registrant may prescribe or administer drugs or anaesthetics, or treat a recent fracture of a bone, except under the direction of a medical practitioner.

Patient relations program
7  The college is designated for the purposes of section 16 (2) (f) of the Act.

Health profession corporations
8  Part 4 of the Act applies to physical therapy.

[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation: Health Professions Act, R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 183, s. 12 (2).]
