Balanced Budget and Ministerial Accountability Act
Minister of State for Trade Expected Results for the 2024-2025 Fiscal Year Regulation
Application of this regulation
1  This regulation applies to the Minister of State for Trade for the 2024/2025 fiscal year.

Definition
2  In this regulation, "Act" means the Balanced Budget and Ministerial Accountability Act.

Minister of State for Trade
3  The expected results that the Minister of State for Trade is to achieve for the purposes of section 5 (3) of the Act are as follows:

(a)promote the 2024 BC Export Awards;

(b)continue to engage with key stakeholders as ministry teams implement the B.C. Trade Diversification Strategy, which includes B.C.'s Export Navigator program, to help more small businesses to export their goods and services and to develop new strategies to expand B.C.'s export opportunities;

(c)continue to support Forestry Innovation Investment Ltd.'s efforts to actively maintain, create and diversify demand for B.C.'s manufactured wood products in key international markets;

(d)continue to promote B.C. food and agricultural exports in collaboration with the Minister of Agriculture and Food;

(e)continue to work with all ministries to ensure more regular interactions with the government of Canada on B.C.'s international trade and economic priorities, including increased opportunities for face-to-face meetings with staff and key ministers in Ottawa;

(f)continue to promote the benefits of free trade and to work across ministries and with the government of Canada to ensure that British Columbia's interests are protected and advanced in trade negotiations and disputes, including supporting the Minister of Forests on softwood lumber negotiations with the United States;

(g)continue to engage with industry stakeholders to identify sector-focused special projects that would support economic development, trade and innovation, including but not limited to special projects in relation to aerospace and broader forest innovation;

(h)continue to build on relationships with B.C.'s neighbouring jurisdictions, including through the Pacific Coast Collaborative, the Pacific North West Economic Region and inter-provincial trade, to expand trade opportunities for B.C. businesses and support our shared efforts to reduce emissions;

(i)continue to support the development and implementation of the B.C. Maritime Industries Strategy;

(j)submit to Cabinet a report on the results referred to in paragraphs (a) to (i) on or before March 31, 2025.

[Provisions relevant to the enactment of this regulation: Balanced Budget and Ministerial Accountability Act, S.B.C. 2001, c. 28, s. 9.]

